Wang Ji-hyun (Korean: 왕지현; born 30 October 1981), known professionally as Jun Ji-hyun (전지현) or Gianna Jun, is a South Korean actress and model. She rose to fame with her role in the romantic comedy film My Sassy Girl (2001), which became a tremendous sensation across Asia and sparked an international breakthrough for Korean cinema. Other notable films include Il Mare (2000), Windstruck (2004), The Thieves (2012), The Berlin File (2013) and Assassination (2015). She also starred in the popular television series My Love from the Star (2013–2014) and The Legend of the Blue Sea (2016–2017), as well as the Netflix series Kingdom (2021).

Jun has received multiple awards, including two Best Actress trophies at the Grand Bell Awards and a Grand Prize for Television at the Baeksang Arts Awards. Her success in film and television has established her as a top Hallyu star. She is referred to as one of "The Troika," along with Kim Tae-hee and Song Hye-kyo, collectively known by the acronym "Tae-Hye-Ji".


== Early life and education ==
Jun was born in Seoul, South Korea. She has a brother who is five years older. Her mother and her mother's friends all encouraged her to be a model or actress due to her height and slim figure. Her childhood dream was to become a flight attendant, but she changed her mind after a flight. In 1997, at the age of 16, she followed her high school female senior and began her career as a model for Ecole Magazine. In 1998, she debuted as an actress and adopted the stage name Jun Ji-hyun, at the suggestion of a producer.
Jun attended college at Dongguk University and graduated in 2004 with a bachelor's degree in Theater and Film. She later enrolled in Dongguk University's graduate school of Digital Media and Contents in 2011 and obtained a master's degree.


== Career ==


=== 1997–2005: Career beginnings and breakthrough ===
Jun first became well known as a commercial model and as a TV actress. Although she made her film debut in the little-watched White Valentine in 1999, it was not until later in the year when she was featured in a commercial for Samsung My Jet Printer that she became a popular sensation. The dancing and attitude expressed in the ad made her into an icon for Koreans in their late teens and early twenties.
The following year, Jun made her first well-publicized film appearance in late 2000 with Il Mare, a handsomely shot melodrama set on Ganghwa Island. The film did respectably well at the box office (despite opening on the same day as blockbuster Joint Security Area) and solidified her status as a star. It was later remade in Hollywood under the title 'Lake House' for the first time in a Korean film starring Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves.
Jun's breakout film was comedy My Sassy Girl, a tale of a gullible college student and his slightly unhinged girlfriend. Jun's "sassy, loud, and domineering character while also embodying traits of a pure-hearted girl" ran contrary to gender norms in Asia. The film became the highest grossing Korean comedy of all time in Korea and also spent two weeks at No. 1 in Hong Kong, launching Jun into pan-Asia stardom as one of the biggest Hallyu stars in the Chinese-language market. The huge success of My Sassy Girl also solidified Jun's domestic popularity, and she was given the title of the "Nation's First Love". Jun's growing popularity resulted in many companies requesting her endorsement. She also won the Best Actress award at the 2002 Grand Bell Awards.
In 2003, Jun starred in the psychological thriller film The Uninvited, which was rather well received by critics but failed to catch on with viewers. Throughout this time she was a constant presence in TV ads and on billboards in Korea and also in other Asian countries.


== Idol Radio ==
Idol Radio (Korean: 아이돌라디오) is a South Korean radio show created by MBC Radio specially for idols. It is listenable through MBC Standard FM and currently watchable live through MBC Radio's official YouTube channel and online portal BIGC, with replays available on MBC Radio's official YouTube channel. Formerly they are viewable via Naver V Live, Universe and the radio show's YouTube channel.


=== History ===
=== Season 1 ===
Pilot episodes from July 23, 2018, to July 29, 2018, were aired at 00:05 (KST) for weekday shows and at 00:00 (KST) for weekend shows. Starting September 27, 2018, broadcasting started at 21:00 (KST) on V Live for weekdays only, while broadcasts on MBC Standard FM started on October 8, 2018, airing at 00:00 (KST) every day.
Starting April 1, 2019, the broadcast on MBC Standard FM would start at 01:00 (KST) every day, while the show is accessible via V Live at 21:00 (KST) every day.
Beginning May 11, 2020, the broadcast on MBC Standard FM would start at 00:00 (KST) every day.